# SPoK - *Sans* Password or Key (v0.1.0)
An easier way for remote server authentication. Powered by [OpenPubkey](https://github.com/openpubkey/openpubkey).

## Installation

### Linux:

#### Arch-based Distros (Arch Linux, EndeavourOS, Manjaro, etc.):

- Download the AUR package for SPoK:
   (You can install it with your favourite AUR helper)

```bash
yay -S spok-bin
```

#### Debian-based Distros (Debian, Ubuntu, Linux Mint, etc.):

- You can install by running the following commands
```bash
curl -s https://packagecloud.io/install/repositories/SaahilNotSahil/spok/script.deb.sh?any=true | sudo bash
sudo apt update
sudo apt install spok
```

### Mac:

#### Homebrew

- You can install by running the following commands
```shell
brew tap devlup-labs/spok
brew install spok
```
- To upgrade the package:
```shell
brew upgrade spok
```

### Windows:

#### Scoop:
- First, you need to install [Scoop](https://scoop.sh/).
- Next, run the following commands in PowerShell
```shell
scoop bucket add org https://github.com/devlup-labs/scoop-spok.git
scoop install spok
```

#### From archive:
- Download the latest release (`spok_<version>_windows_amd64.zip`) from [here](https://github.com/devlup-labs/spok/releases).
- Extract the zip file.
- Open Powershell as administrator and run the following commands
```shell
cd <path-to-extracted-folder>
.\install.ps1
```
- SPoK is now installed on your system in the `C:\Program Files\SPoK` directory, and is added to the PATH.

## Usage

SPoK consists of two parts: the `spok` client CLI tool, and the `verifier` server-side tool, which is downloaded automatically while configuring your server to use SPoK.  
You must have access to the `root` user on the server, or any other user with `sudo` privileges, to configure the server to use SPoK.

### Client side:
- Configure your server by running the following command

```shell
spok configure -s <user>@<server-ip-or-hostname> -e <email-id>
```

(Optional in case of key-pair authentication)

```shell
spok configure -i <pvt_key_path> -s <user>@<server-ip> -e <email-id>
```

- Login to your email account (the one you provided while configuring the server)

```shell
spok login
```
#### Note: Currently works only with Google (Gmail + Google Workspace) accounts.

- Now you can SSH into your server, and it won't ask for a password or key

```shell
ssh <user>@<server-ip>
```

#### Note 2: The server must have an active internet connection for configuring SPoK, as well as every time you SSH into the server. If it ever loses internet connectivity, you can always fall back to using a password or key.
#### Note 3: Currently the validity of the token is 1 hour. After that, you will have to re-login to your email account. Just use the `spok login` command again.

### Server side:

Once the server is successfully configured to use with SPoK, you'll find a new directory `/etc/spok` on the server, which contains two files - a `policy.yml` file and the the `verifier` program. If any of these files are missing or empty, make sure the server has an active internet connection, the user is root or has sudo privileges, and run the `configure` command again.

#### Policy.yml:

The `policy.yml` file contains the information regarding which email addresses can access which users, or `principals`, on the server, using SPoK.  
This file can be edited directly using a text editor, or preferably using the `verifier` tool.

#### Verifier:

The `verifier` tool primarily serves two purposes:-  
1. Once configured, the `verifier` becomes the default authentication provider for `sshd` on the server. When you ssh into the server using a certificate that is generated by `spok login`, the verifier verifies the certificate for authenticity, and also checks it against the policy stored in the `policy.yml` file. Once verified, you are automatically logged into the server. If it fails to verify, it'll fall back on other configured modes of authentication.
2. It can also be used to add/remove `principals` for different email addresses in the `policy.yml` file.
- To add a new principal called `user` for the email address `someone@example.com`, run the following command:
```shell
/etc/spok/verifier add someone@example.com user
```

- Similarly, to remove the principal, use the `remove` command:
```shell
/etc/spok/verifier remove someone@example.com user
```
